{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs22\lang1033 ## Unit 11 Submission File: Network Security Homework \par
\par
### Part 1: Review Questions \par
\par
#### Security Control Types\par
\par
The concept of defense in depth can be broken down into three different security control types. Identify the security control type of each set  of defense tactics.\par
\par
1. Walls, bollards, fences, guard dogs, cameras, and lighting are what type of security control?\par
\par
    Answer:\highlight1 Physical\highlight0\par
\par
2. Security awareness programs, BYOD policies, and ethical hiring practices are what type of security control?\par
\par
    Answer:\highlight1 Administrative\highlight0\par
\par
3. Encryption, biometric fingerprint readers, firewalls, endpoint security, and intrusion detection systems are what type of security control?\par
\par
    Answer:\highlight1 Technical\highlight0\par
\par
#### Intrusion Detection and Attack indicators\par
\par
1. What's the difference between an IDS and an IPS?\par
\par
    Answer: \highlight1 IPS logs & takes action against potential threat traffic, IDS does not.\highlight0\par
\par
2. What's the difference between an Indicator of Attack and an Indicator of Compromise?\par
\par
   Answer:\highlight1 Indicator of attacks are real time indicators, indicators of compromise are not.\highlight0\par
\par
#### The Cyber Kill Chain\par
\par
Name each of the seven stages for the Cyber Kill chain and provide a brief example of each.\par
\par
1. Stage 1: \highlight1 Recon - Gathering info on an individual in preparation for an attack.\par
\highlight0\par
2. Stage 2: \highlight1 Weaponization - Injecting the malicious software or installing some sort of back door on said target's machine.\highlight0\par
\par
3. Stage 3: \highlight1 Delivery - Attacker sends malicious payload by means of email or instant message.\par
\highlight0\par
4. Stage 4: \highlight1 Exploitation - Gaining access & compromising the user's machine.\highlight0\par
\par
5. Stage 5: \highlight1 Installation - Installing more malicious code such as granting your own user root access.\highlight0\par
\par
6. Stage 6: \highlight1 C2 - Command channel used to control another computer.\highlight0\par
\par
7. Stage 7: \highlight1 Exfiltration - Accomplishing the final goal on the user's machine.\highlight0\par
\par
\par
#### Snort Rule Analysis\par
\par
Use the Snort rule to answer the following questions:\par
\par
Snort Rule #1\par
\par
```bash\par
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET any - $HOME_NET 5800:5820 (msg:"ET SCAN Potential VNC Scan 5800-5820"; flags:S,12; threshold: type both, track by_src, count 5, seconds 60; reference:url,doc.emergingthreats.net/2002910; classtype:attempted-recon; sid:2002910; rev:5; metadata:created_at 2010_07_30, updated_at 2010_07_30;)\par
```\par
\par
1. Break down the Sort Rule header and explain what is happening.\par
\par
   Answer: \highlight1 Alerts user of ANY inbound TCP traffic from ports 5800:5820.\highlight0\par
\par
2. What stage of the Cyber Kill Chain does this alert violate?\par
\par
   Answer: \highlight1 Recon.\highlight0\par
\par
3. What kind of attack is indicated?\par
\par
   Answer:\highlight1 Potential VNC scan.\highlight0\par
\par
Snort Rule #2\par
\par
```bash\par
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET $HTTP_PORTS - $HOME_NET any (msg:"ET POLICY PE EXE or DLL Windows file download HTTP"; flow:established,to_client; flowbits:isnotset,ET.http.binary; flowbits:isnotset,ET.INFO.WindowsUpdate; file_data; content:"MZ"; within:2; byte_jump:4,58,relative,little; content:"PE|00 00|"; distance:-64; within:4; flowbits:set,ET.http.binary; metadata: former_category POLICY; reference:url,doc.emergingthreats.net/bin/view/Main/2018959; classtype:policy-violation; sid:2018959; rev:4; metadata:created_at 2014_08_19, updated_at 2017_02_01;)\par
```\par
\par
1. Break down the Sort Rule header and explain what is happening.\par
\par
   Answer: \highlight1 Alerts for inbound TCP traffic on port 80, HTTP.\highlight0\par
\par
2. What layer of the Defense in Depth model does this alert violate?\par
\par
   Answer:\highlight1 Policies, awareness, & procedures.\highlight0\par
\par
3. What kind of attack is indicated?\par
\par
   Answer:\highlight1 Policy PE EXE or DLL file download.\highlight0\par
\par
Snort Rule #3\par
\par
- Your turn! Write a Snort rule that alerts when traffic is detected inbound on port 4444 to the local network on any port. Be sure to include the `msg` in the Rule Option.\par
\par
    Answer: \highlight1 alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET 4444 - $HOME_NET any (msg: "ET Possible Trojan or CrackDown)\highlight0\par
\par
### Part 2: "Drop Zone" Lab\par
\par
#### Log into the Azure `firewalld` machine\par
\par
Log in using the following credentials:\par
\par
- Username: `sysadmin`\par
- Password: `cybersecurity`\par
\par
#### Uninstall `ufw`\par
\par
Before getting started, you should verify that you do not have any instances of `ufw` running. This will avoid conflicts with your `firewalld` service. This also ensures that `firewalld` will be your default firewall.\par
\par
- Run the command that removes any running instance of `ufw`.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
     \highlight1 $ sudo apt -y remove ufw\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
#### Enable and start `firewalld`\par
\par
By default, these service should be running. If not, then run the following commands:\par
\par
- Run the commands that enable and start `firewalld` upon boots and reboots.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ <sudo systemctl enable firewalld\par
    $ sudo systemctl start firewalld    \par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
  Note: This will ensure that `firewalld` remains active after each reboot.\par
\par
#### Confirm that the service is running.\par
\par
- Run the command that checks whether or not the `firewalld` service is up and running.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --state\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
\par
#### List all firewall rules currently configured.\par
\par
Next, lists all currently configured firewall rules. This will give you a good idea of what's currently configured and save you time in the long run by not doing double work.\par
\par
- Run the command that lists all currently configured firewall rules:\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --list-all\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
- Take note of what Zones and settings are configured. You many need to remove unneeded services and settings.\par
\par
#### List all supported service types that can be enabled.\par
\par
- Run the command that lists all currently supported services to see if the service you need is available\par
\par
    ```bash\par
\tab\highlight1 $ sudo firewalld-cmd --get-services \highlight0\par
   ```\par
\par
- We can see that the `Home` and `Drop` Zones are created by default.\par
\par
\par
#### Zone Views\par
\par
- Run the command that lists all currently configured zones.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
\highlight1     $ sudo firewall-cmd --lit-all-zones\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
- We can see that the `Public` and `Drop` Zones are created by default. Therefore, we will need to create Zones for `Web`, `Sales`, and `Mail`.\par
\par
#### Create Zones for `Web`, `Sales` and `Mail`.\par
\par
- Run the commands that creates Web, Sales and Mail zones.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
   \highlight1  $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=web\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=mail\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=sales\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
#### Set the zones to their designated interfaces:\par
\par
- Run the commands that sets your `eth` interfaces to your zones.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
   \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --change-interface=eth0\par
   $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --change-interface=eth0\par
   $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --change-interface=eth0\par
   $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --change-interface=eth0\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
#### Add services to the active zones:\par
\par
- Run the commands that add services to the **public** zone, the **web** zone, the **sales** zone, and the **mail** zone.\par
\par
- Public:\par
\par
    ```bash\highlight1\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=smtp\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=http\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=https\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=pop3\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
- Web:\par
\par
    ```bash\par
\highlight1     $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --add-service=http\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
- Sales\par
\par
    ```bash\par
\highlight1     $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --add-service=https\par
\highlight0     ```\par
\par
- Mail\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --add-service=smtp\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --add-service=pop3\par
\highlight0    \par
    ```\par
\par
- What is the status of `http`, `https`, `smtp` and `pop3`?\par
\par
#### Add your adversaries to the Drop Zone.\par
\par
- Run the command that will add all current and any future blacklisted IPs to the Drop Zone.\par
\par
     ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source=10.208.56.23\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source=135.95.103.76\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source=76.34.169.118   \par
\highlight0  ```\par
\par
#### Make rules permanent then reload them:\par
\par
It's good practice to ensure that your `firewalld` installation remains nailed up and retains its services across reboots. This ensure that the network remains secured after unplanned outages such as power failures.\par
\par
- Run the command that reloads the `firewalld` configurations and writes it to memory\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd--reload\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
#### View active Zones\par
\par
Now, we'll want to provide truncated listings of all currently **active** zones. This a good time to verify your zone settings.\par
\par
- Run the command that displays all zone services.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --get-active-zones\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
\par
#### Block an IP address\par
\par
- Use a rich-rule that blocks the IP address `138.138.0.3`.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-rich-rule='rule family="ipv4" source address="138.138.0.3" reject'\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
#### Block Ping/ICMP Requests\par
\par
Harden your network against `ping` scans by blocking `icmp ehco` replies.\par
\par
- Run the command that blocks `pings` and `icmp` requests in your `public` zone.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-icmp-block=echo-reply --add-icmp-block=echo-request\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
#### Rule Check\par
\par
Now that you've set up your brand new `firewalld` installation, it's time to verify that all of the settings have taken effect.\par
\par
- Run the command that lists all  of the rule settings. Do one command at a time for each zone.\par
\par
    ```bash\par
    \highlight1 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --list-all\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --list-all\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --list-all\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --list-all\par
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --list-all\highlight0\par
    ```\par
\par
- Are all of our rules in place? If not, then go back and make the necessary modifications before checking again.\par
\par
\par
Congratulations! You have successfully configured and deployed a fully comprehensive `firewalld` installation.\par
\par
---\par
\par
### Part 3: IDS, IPS, DiD and Firewalls\par
\par
Now, we will work on another lab. Before you start, complete the following review questions.\par
\par
#### IDS vs. IPS Systems\par
\par
1. Name and define two ways an IDS connects to a network.\par
\par
   Answer 1: \highlight1 Perimeter\highlight0 .\par
   Answer 2: \highlight1 Host\highlight0 .\par
\par
2. Describe how an IPS connects to a network.\par
\par
   Answer: \highlight1 Physically connection usually after a switch.\highlight0\par
\par
\par
3. What type of IDS compares patterns of traffic to predefined signatures and is unable to detect Zero-Day attacks?\par
\par
   \highlight1 Answer: Signature type.\highlight0\par
\par
\par
4. Which type of IDS is beneficial for detecting all suspicious traffic that deviates from the well-known baseline and is excellent at detecting when an attacker probes or sweeps a network?\par
\par
\highlight1\tab Answer: Anomaly type.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
#### Defense in Depth\par
\par
1. For each of the following scenarios, provide the layer of Defense in Depth that applies:\par
\par
    1.  A criminal hacker tailgates an employee through an exterior door into a secured facility, explaining that they forgot their badge at home.\par
\par
\highlight1         Answer: Physical.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
    2. A zero-day goes undetected by antivirus software.\par
\par
\highlight1         Answer: Application.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
    3. A criminal successfully gains access to HR\'e2\'80\'99s database.\par
\par
\highlight1         Answer: Data.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
    4. A criminal hacker exploits a vulnerability within an operating system.\par
\par
\highlight1         Answer: Host.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
    5. A hacktivist organization successfully performs a DDoS attack, taking down a government website.\par
\par
\highlight1         Answer: Network.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
    6. Data is classified at the wrong classification level.\par
\par
\highlight1         Answer: Policy, procedures, & awareness.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
    7. A state sponsored hacker group successfully firewalked an organization to produce a list of active services on an email server.\par
\par
\highlight1\tab   Answer: Perimeter.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
2. Name one method of protecting data-at-rest from being readable on hard drive.\par
\par
\highlight1     Answer: Encryption.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
3. Name one method to protect data-in-transit.\par
\par
    \highlight1 Answer: VPN, spoofers.\highlight0\par
\par
4. What technology could provide law enforcement with the ability to track and recover a stolen laptop.\par
\par
\highlight1    Answer: Trackers.\par
\highlight0\par
5. How could you prevent an attacker from booting a stolen laptop using an external hard drive?\par
\par
\highlight1    Answer: Disable USB Booting and CD Booting in the BIOS.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
#### Firewall Architectures and Methodologies\par
\par
1. Which type of firewall verifies the three-way TCP handshake? TCP handshake checks are designed to ensure that session packets are from legitimate sources.\par
\par
\highlight1   Answer: Circuit level gateway.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
2. Which type of firewall considers the connection as a whole? Meaning, instead of looking at only individual packets, these firewalls look at whole streams of packets at one time.\par
\par
\highlight1   Answer: Stateful packet filter firewall.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
3. Which type of firewall intercepts all traffic prior to being forwarded to its final destination. In a sense, these firewalls act on behalf of the recipient by ensuring the traffic is safe prior to forwarding it?\par
\par
\highlight1 Answer: Application or proxy firewall.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
4. Which type of firewall examines data within a packet as it progresses through a network interface by examining source and destination IP address, port number, and packet type- all without opening the packet to inspect its contents?\par
\par
\highlight1 Answer:Packet-filtering firewall.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
5. Which type of firewall filters based solely on source and destination MAC address?\par
\par
\highlight1 Answer: MAC Firewall.\par
\highlight0\par
\par
\par
### Bonus Lab: "Green Eggs & SPAM"\par
In this activity, you will target spam, uncover its whereabouts, and attempt to discover the intent of the attacker.\par
 \par
- You will assume the role of a Jr. Security administrator working for the Department of Technology for the State of California.\par
 \par
- As a junior administrator, your primary role is to perform the initial triage of alert data: the initial investigation and analysis followed by an escalation of high priority alerts to senior incident handlers for further review.\par
 \par
- You will work as part of a Computer and Incident Response Team (CIRT), responsible for compiling **Threat Intelligence** as part of your incident report.\par
\par
#### Threat Intelligence Card\par
\par
**Note**: Log into the Security Onion VM and use the following **Indicator of Attack** to complete this portion of the homework. \par
\par
Locate the following Indicator of Attack in Sguil based off of the following:\par
\par
- **Source IP/Port**: `188.124.9.56:80`\par
- **Destination Address/Port**: `192.168.3.35:1035`\par
- **Event Message**: `ET TROJAN JS/Nemucod.M.gen downloading EXE payload`\par
\par
Answer the following:\par
\par
1. What was the indicator of an attack?\par
   - Hint: What do the details of the reveal? \par
\par
    Answer: \par
\par
\par
2. What was the adversarial motivation (purpose of attack)?\par
\par
    Answer: \par
\par
3. Describe observations and indicators that may be related to the perpetrators of the intrusion. Categorize your insights according to the appropriate stage of the cyber kill chain, as structured in the following table.\par
\par
| TTP | Example | Findings |\par
| --- | --- | --- | \par
| **Reconnaissance** |  How did they attacker locate the victim? | \par
| **Weaponization** |  What was it that was downloaded?|\par
| **Delivery** |    How was it downloaded?|\par
| **Exploitation** |  What does the exploit do?|\par
| **Installation** | How is the exploit installed?|\par
| **Command & Control (C2)** | How does the attacker gain control of the remote machine?|\par
| **Actions on Objectives** | What does the software that the attacker sent do to complete it's tasks?|\par
\par
\par
    Answer: \par
\par
\par
4. What are your recommended mitigation strategies?\par
\par
\par
    Answer: \par
\par
\par
5. List your third-party references.\par
\par
    Answer: \par
\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://uci.bootcampcontent.com/Ngranado1/homework/blob/d76eb217d404c70758ea5d871bdeaa67070bbea6/11%20Homework/Homework_11-Network-Security_SubmissionFile.md }}{\fldrslt{https://uci.bootcampcontent.com/Ngranado1/homework/blob/d76eb217d404c70758ea5d871bdeaa67070bbea6/11%20Homework/Homework_11-Network-Security_SubmissionFile.md\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
---\par
\par
\'c2\'a9 2020 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
}
 